Chapter 1 = 15 Mcqs
Chapter 2 = 15 Mcqs
Chapter 4 = 19 Mcqs



1. Information security is primarily a discipline to manage the behavior of:
A. Technology
B. People ✅
C. Processes
D. Organizations

2. Careers in information security are booming because of which of the following factors?
A. Threats of cyberterrorism
B. Government regulations
C. Growth of the Internet
D. All of the above ✅

3. Which of the following best represents the three objectives of information security?
A. Confidentiality, integrity, and availability ✅
B. Resilience, privacy, and safety
C. Confidentiality, secrecy, and privacy
D. Safety, access control, and secrecy

4. A program for information security should include which of the following elements?
A. Security policies and procedures ✅
B. Intentional attacks only
C. Unintentional attacks only
D. None of the above

5. The growing demand for InfoSec specialists is occurring predominantly in which of the following types of organizations?
A. Government
B. Corporations
C. Not-for-profit foundations
D. All of the above ✅

6. Which college curriculum is more appropriate for a career in information security?
A. Business administration
B. Computer information sciences
C. Both A and B ✅
D. None of the above

7. What is meant by the phrase “the umbrella of information security”?
A. When it rains, it pours.
B. IS incorporates many different pursuits and disciplines. ✅
C. Just as it is bad luck to open an umbrella indoors, it is bad luck not to have an information security policy.
D. IS policies, like umbrellas, should never be loaned to others because they are easily lost or misused.

8. The formal study of information security has accelerated primarily for what reason?
A. Common breaches of computer systems
B. The formation of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security
C. Object-oriented programming
D. Increasingly interconnected global networks ✅

9. Which of the following would make an individual seeking a career in information security more marketable?
A. CISSP certification
B. GIAC certification
C. Evaluating virus-protection software on a home computer
D. All of the above ✅

10. Which of the following statements is true of a career in information security?
A. A career in information security has a better job growth outlook than other areas within IT. ✅
B. A career in information security is limited by the programming languages the candidate knows.
C. A career in information security will eventually disappear with improvements in IS tools.
D. A career in information security is a highly complex but narrow discipline.

11. Which of the following statements is true of a sound information security policy?
A. A sound information security policy is worth any price.
B. A sound information security policy is a balance between the cost of protecting information and the value of the information being protected. ✅
C. A sound information security policy belongs exclusively to the IT department.
D. A sound information security policy results in unique practices and policies specific to the owning IT department.

12. Which of the following topics are part of an information security practice?
A. Laws and ethical practices
B. Access controls
C. Security architecture
D. All of the above ✅

13. Which of the following roles helps development teams meet security requirements?
A. Policymakers
B. Compliance officers
C. Security consultants ✅
D. Security architects

14. Who is responsible for ensuring that systems are auditable and protected from excessive privileges?
A. Compliance officers
B. Access coordinators
C. Security administrators ✅
D. Policymakers

15. Which of the following roles is responsible for ensuring that third-party suppliers and outsourced functions remain in security compliance?
A. Compliance officers ✅
B. Vendor managers
C. Security architects
D. Access coordinators


--------------------------
Ch 2

1. Which of the following represents the three goals of information security?
A. Confidentiality, integrity, and availability ✅
B. Prevention, detection, and response
C. People controls, process controls, and technology controls
D. Network security, PC security, and mainframe security

2. Which of the following terms best describes the assurance that data has not been changed unintentionally due to an accident or malice?
A. Availability
B. Confidentiality
C. Integrity ✅
D. Auditability

3. Related to information security, confidentiality is the opposite of which of the following?
A. Closure
B. Disclosure ✅
C. Disaster
D. Disposal

4. The CIA triad is often represented by which of the following?
A. Triangle ✅
B. Diagonal
C. Ellipse
D. Circle

5. Defense in depth is needed to ensure that which three mandatory activities are present in a security system?
A. Prevention, response, and prosecution
B. Response, collection of evidence, and prosecution
C. Prevention, detection, and response ✅
D. Prevention, response, and management

6. Which of the following statements is true?
A. The weakest link in any security system is the technology element.
B. The weakest link in any security system is the process element.
C. The weakest link in any security system is the human element. ✅
D. Both B and C

7. Which of the following best represents the two types of IT security requirements?
A. Functional and logical
B. Logical and physical
C. Functional and assurance ✅
D. Functional and physical

8. Security functional requirements describe which of the following?
A. What a security system should do by design ✅
B. What controls a security system must implement
C. Quality assurance description and testing approach
D. How to implement the system

9. Which of the following statements is true?
A. Security assurance requirements describe how to test the system.
B. Security assurance requirements describe how to program the system.
C. Security assurance requirements describe to what degree the testing of the system is conducted. ✅
D. Security assurance requirements describe implementation considerations.

10. Which of the following terms best describes the probability that a threat to an information system will materialize?
A. Threat
B. Vulnerability
C. Hole
D. Risk ✅

11. Which of the following terms best describes the absence or weakness in a system that may possibly be exploited?
A. Vulnerability ✅
B. Threat
C. Risk
D. Exposure

12. Which of the following statements is true?
A. Controls are implemented to eliminate risk and eliminate the potential for loss.
B. Controls are implemented to mitigate risk and reduce the potential for loss. ✅
C. Controls are implemented to eliminate risk and reduce the potential for loss.
D. Controls are implemented to mitigate risk and eliminate the potential for loss.

13. Which of the following terms best describes a cookbook on how to take advantage of a vulnerability?
A. Risk
B. Exploit ✅
C. Threat
D. Program

14. Which of the following represents the three types of security controls?
A. People, functions, and technology
B. People, process, and technology ✅
C. Technology, roles, and separation of duties
D. Separation of duties, processes, and people

15. Which of the following statements is true?
A. Process controls for IT security include assignment of roles for least privilege.
B. Process controls for IT security include separation of duties.
C. Process controls for IT security include documented procedures.

-------------------------------

1. Which of the following choices is not part of a security policy?

A. A definition of overall steps of information security and the importance of security
B. A statement of management intent, supporting the goals and principles of information security
C. A definition of general and specific responsibilities for information security management
D. A description of specific technologies used in the field of information security regulations ✅

---

2. Which of the following is the first step in establishing an information security programme?

A. Adoption of a corporate information security policy statement ✅
B. Development and implementation of an information security standards manual
C. Development of a security awareness training program for employees
D. Purchase of security access control software


---

3. An effective information security policy should not have which of the following characteristics?

A. It should include separation of duties.
B. It should be designed with a short- to midterm focus. ✅
C. It should be understandable and supported by all stakeholders.
D. It should specify areas of responsibility and authority.

---

4. What is the difference between advisory and regulatory security policies?

A. There is no difference between them.
B. Regulatory policies are high-level policy, whereas advisory policies are very detailed.
C. Advisory policies provide recommendations. ✅
D. Advisory policies are mandated, whereas regulatory policies are not.

---

5. Which of the following terms can best be defined as high-level statements, beliefs, goals, and objectives?

A. Standards
B. Policies ✅
C. Guidelines
D. Procedures

---

6. A deviation or exception from a security standard requires which of the following?

A. Risk acceptance ✅
B. Risk assignment
C. Risk reduction
D. Risk containment

---

7. Why would an information security policy require that communications test equipment be controlled?

A. The equipment is susceptible to damage.
B. The equipment can be used to browse information passing on a network. ✅
C. The equipment must always be available for replacement, if necessary.
D. The equipment can be used to reconfigure network devices.

---

8. Which of the following terms best describes step-by-step instructions used to satisfy control requirements?

A. Policy
B. Standard
C. Guideline
D. Procedure ✅

---

9. Which of the following embodies all the detailed actions that personnel are required to follow?

A. Standards
B. Guidelines
C. Procedures ✅
D. Baselines

---

10. Which of the following would be defined as an absence or weakness of a safeguard that could be exploited?

A. A threat
B. A vulnerability ✅
C. A risk
D. An exposure

---

11. Within IT security, which of the following combinations best defines risk?

A. A threat coupled with a breach
B. A threat coupled with a vulnerability ✅
C. A vulnerability coupled with an attack
D. A breach coupled with an attacker

---

12. Which of the following statements best describes IT security measures?

A. IT security measures should be complex.
B. IT security measures should be tailored to meet organizational security goals. ✅
C. IT security measures should make sure that every asset of the organization is well protected.
D. IT security measures should not be developed in a layered fashion.

---

13. Which of the following should not be addressed by employee termination practices?

A. Removal of the employee from active payroll files
B. Return of access badges
C. Employee bonding to protect against losses due to theft ✅
D. Deletion of assigned logon ID and passwords to prohibit system access

---

14. Which of the following statements best defines risk management?

A. Risk management is the process of eliminating the risk.
B. Risk management is the process of assessing the risks.
C. Risk management is the process of reducing risk to an acceptable level. ✅
D. Risk management is the process of transferring risk.

---

15. Which of the following statements best describes controls?

A. Controls eliminate risk and reduce the potential for loss.
B. Controls mitigate risk and eliminate the potential for loss.
C. Controls mitigate risk and reduce the potential for loss. ✅
D. Controls eliminate risk and eliminate the potential for loss.

---

16. Which of the following is an advantage of a qualitative risk analysis?

A. A qualitative risk analysis prioritizes the risks and identifies areas for immediate improvement in addressing the vulnerabilities. ✅
B. A qualitative risk analysis provides specific quantifiable measurements of the magnitude of the impacts.
C. A qualitative risk analysis makes a cost-benefit analysis of recommended controls easier.
D. A qualitative risk analysis can easily be automated.

---

17. Which of the following terms best describes an event that could cause harm to the information systems?

A. A risk
B. A threat ✅
C. A vulnerability
D. A weakness

---

18. One purpose of a security awareness program is to modify which of the following?

A. Employees’ attitudes and behaviors ✅
B. Management’s approach
C. Attitudes of employees toward sensitive data
D. Corporate attitudes about safeguarding data

---

19. Which of the following should be given technical security training?

A. Operators
B. Security practitioners and information systems auditors
C. IT support personnel and system administrators ✅
D. Senior managers, functional managers, and business unit managers